# JSBudget - A JavaScript Project#

This is my **second** version of the final project in The complete JavaScript course over at [Udemy](http://udemy.com).  My first try grew into a monster ;), plus I learnt a bit about what is and isn't really needed in the app and so my goals have changed as follows:

1. Make the app responsive.
2. I would like to give it some kind of input error feedback.
3. Transactions need to be saved to make this a useful app.
4. It would be nice if it was either multi-user or/and a user could have multiple budgets e.g. household, hobby or holiday.

My purpose in doing this is to practise what I have learnt in the course and become more proficient in JavaScript.

## Compilation ##

**Requirements**: [**Node**](https://nodejs.org/) and then **Gulp** should be installed globally.

1. Either download the .zip or clone it somewhere.
1. Open your Terminal/Command line inside the `TLCBudget` directory and type `npm install`.
2. Type `gulp` to compile and create the `public` directory.
3. Type `gulp watch` and browserSync will open a browser window and show you the result.
4. Then you can open your fav editor and explore and/or play with the source code.

## Usage ##

If you want to use this app, type 'gulp build' in the command-line/terminal and then copy the build directory to wherever is good for you. You can then just double-click on the **index.html** file to start it up.

This app was created on a windows 7 PC and using the Chrome browser. It has NOT been tested on any other combination of OS/browser/computer, so YMMV if you use any other combination ;)

## Features ##
1. Multi-user capability.
2. Transaction dates can be shown/hidden by clicking on the ON/OFF in the menubar.
3. Transactions and user registration details are stored locally.
4. Responsive design.
5. Useful error feedback.


## Directory Structure ##
**gulp**: This contains the individual gulp tasks.

**src**: This contains the source code of my version of the project.

**public**: This directory is generated by Gulp and will contain the final concatenated, minified files.

## Plan of Attack ##

**Phase 1**: Cut-up my original codebase and convert it to a gulp workflow, life's too short to keep hitting refresh on the browser all day!

**Phase 2**: Rewrite the CSS to use a flex layout, I'll probably have to change some of the markup as well. I shall make it responsive at this point.

**Phase 3**: Add the error reporting functionality.

**Phase 4**: Add load and save functionality.

**Phase 5**: Add multi-user capability, so the whole family can have their own individual budget plans ;) To accomplish this login/register etc. dialogs/pages will need to be added.

**Phase 6**: Allow a user to have multiple budgets. (Dunno about this one yet..).

**Phase 7**: Nothing planned yet..

## Progress ##

**Phase 1**: Completed.

**Phase 2**: Completed.

**Phase 3**: Completed: Very DRY ;) one function to display both error and success alerts.

**Phase 4**: Completed. I used localStorage but as all the load/save functionality is in a module, the module's functions could be re-written to use other forms of storage.

**Phase 5**: Completed.This was harder than what I thought it was going to be. To have multiple users we need some way of letting the user register and then log in. The system had to be able to save and load the data for that user only. User details are stored in localStorage.

For the login/register etc. forms I used the content area and ajax'ed the html form partials into it. Making this an SPA :) When you start the JSBudget, if there are any registered users it will display the login form, otherwise it will show the register form. 

Of course I had to show the user his/her name and give 'em a **menu** so they could logout when they are finished. I thought it might be nice to see each transaction's date so I add that in. It can be toggled on/off from the menu. Another little touch is that whenever a new 'page' is shown the cursor is put in the first available field.

Error reporting has been tarted-up :) When you make an error, an error message will apppear and the erroneous field will be highlighted. When the error message goes away the field will be restored and the cursor will be placed in it.

Gulpfile has been updated to include 'build' where the css and js files are compressed.

**Phase 6**: 

**Phase 7**: 